hi I'm Miranda Valentine editor of the
lifestyle blog everything sounds better
in French and today I'm going to show
you how to make basic mashed potatoes
now this simple side dish is such a
classic and such a favorite and as
you'll see really really easy to do so I
have all of our ingredients laid out
here we're starting with one and a half
pounds of baking potatoes such as russet
or Yukon Gold and they have been washed
peeled and quartered I have them right
here
we're gonna use three to five
tablespoons of milk I've used five just
because I like my mashed potatoes to be
nice and creamy we also have two
tablespoons of unsalted butter we have a
half of a teaspoon of salt and then just
a little pinch of pepper that we're
gonna use over here to taste so I've got
water in this medium saucepan over here
and it's already started to to heat I'm
going to add my potatoes right now
and then I'm gonna bring them to a boil
we're gonna let this boil covered for
about 20 to 25 minutes until our
potatoes are nice and tender and ready
to mash also gonna add our salt and now
we're gonna salt the water pop this on
and now we're going to let it boil for
20 to 25 minutes and we'll check it you
can always do the fork test insert a
fork to see if it's tender if it is you
know you're ready to go it's been 20
minutes and our potatoes are nice and
soft so I've drained them and put them
into this bowl because I'm gonna mix
everything together so I'm using a
potato masher today but you could also
use a hand mixer I would caution against
ever putting it in a blender or a food
processor or even using your hand mixer
on too high
potatoes are so high in starch that they
can actually become like gluey really
really quickly you can over process a
potato so just keep that in mind so when
you're working with a small amount like
this I find that a potato masher looks
just fine so we're just gonna start and
just kind of break it up a little bit of
mash mash mash this doesn't have to be
perfect yet we're just starting starting
the mashing process and now we're gonna
add in the butter so let's pop our
butter in here
and you'll definitely want to make sure
that you're doing this you know right
after the potatoes have been drained
because you know obviously the heat and
steam from the potatoes are what is
going to melt our butter here and now
it's time to add in a little bit more
salt and pepper this is to taste you'll
remember that we boiled our potatoes
using the salted water and so now this
is just a taste I happen to like my
mashed potatoes with quite a bit of salt
but that's different for everyone so you
just do however much you like just
remember that you could always add more
but you can't take any up so maybe don't
be too heavy-handed if you're not sure
on what your preference is yet and just
mix mix mix so it's starting to get nice
and light and fluffy so we can add in
the milk now a note about milk you want
to make sure that you use not cold milk
if you can use at least room temperature
or warms milk that's better
if you use cold milk it will react with
the starch and also give you kind of
that gluey difficult texture I've
learned that the hard way a long time
ago so definitely want to use some some
warm milk or room-temperature peat pen
it's just a little trick to make it a
bit easier for you so we're just gonna
add it in in sections so I'm just gonna
do kind of half right now just drizzle
and mash it up and then the remaining a
little bit and once you have this recipe
down you'll be able to customize it to
your you know
Herts content you could add in pesto you
could do roasted garlic it even add salt
into mashed potatoes there are so many
things but once you have this recipe
down you are good to go there you go
creamy delicious the perfect
quintessential side dish that's how you
make basic mashed potatoes
thanks for watching make sure to
subscribe and if there's something that
you want to learn how to make send me an
email at request at Mahalo calm and
don't forget to check out our other
great videos
[Music]